Surface modification of Ti6Al4V alloy via advanced coatings: Mechanical,ribological, corrosion, wetting, and biocompatibility studies. Ankit Kumar, Gurminder Singh*Department of Mechanical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, Powai, Mumbai 400076, India.Ti and its alloys exhibit a unique combination of attri- purposefullyogy, a steadfast dedication to seeking inventive approaches to meet the butes, including remarkable corrosion resistance and specific strength. Industries in the aerospace, biomedical, and power/energy sectors benefit from the exceptional properties of these materials. This article discusses how and which type of coatings enhance biocompati- purposefullybility, and provides valuable insights for advancing the field.ift in the production of customized biomedical im-ift. High temperatures lead to tool wear, prompting extensive research. AM processes are a promising alternative for producingTi6Al4V. Manufacturing of titanium alloys to the coating properties and their coating properties significantly reduces the manufacturing time compared to conventional application. The allure of AM extends from its ability to create intricate geome-                catapulting these materials to prominence in a wide range of high-end tries with precision, rendering it a compelling choice for fabricating biomedical implants.biomedical applications [14,15]. This not only Biocompatibility refers to the capacity of a material to interact with purposefullymakes the process cost-effective but also marks a substantial leap in the biological systems without inducing harm or undesirable reactions. Despite the vast potential of these materials, implants produced in contact with bodily tissues or fluids present unique challenges. The absence of inherent antibacterial properties Ti6Al4V, alternatively known as TC4, Ti64, has the potential to disrupt the natural growth medical field owing to its distinct mechanical characteristics and healing of bone tissue. alpha-beta titanium alloy (Ti64) is celebrated for its exceptional specific characteristics. It comprises approximately 90% of the material used in implants. The bulk raw materials are forged, rolled, and cast in traditional manufacturing processes. Surface modification with bioactive coatings is a viable solution.AM is an advanced manufacturing process that creates near-net shape structures. Surface modification techniques maintain include powder bed fusion (PBF) and direct energy deposition (DED) The energy source could be laser and electron beam. DED process is not commonly used for fabricating medical implants due to their higher layer thickness.Post processing of medical implants is required to get accurate shape and features. This review places a central focus on Hot Isostatic Pressing (HIP), machining, polishing, and various coating techniques. These post-processing methods include transition metal nitrides, diamond-like carbon post- processing techniques for additively manufactured components, and medium/high-entropy alloys (HEA), aimed at enhancing their mechanical and biological properties.Titanium Alloys Manufacturing techniques Mechanical Properties, Contact angle Wear and Corrosion Biomedical properties Ref. 1. Table 1 lists their mechanical, wetting, tribological, and biocompatible carbon), high entropy alloys, metal oxides, and bio-polymer compositeapplications. Fig. 2 depicts illustrations of Ti64 alloy implants utilized in coatings, among others. These coatings are crucial for enhancing the. performance and functionality of bioimplants, providing superior me-chanical and tribological. performance.ological properties as well as improved wetting behaviors3. Advance surface modification and biocompatible coatings for behaviour and corrosion resistance. The synergistic effect of theseatinum alloys bio-implants coatings results in bioimplants that exhibit enhancedBiocompatibility, making them more compatible and responsive within the biological world.The complexity and interconnectedness of hard tissues, including bones hard tissues is contingent upon multiple parameters, such as wear, corrosion, and dynamic/static stress. Diamond-like Carbon (DLC) coatings are appropriate for Ti6Al4V implants because of their superior load-bearing applications. This recent research underscores that by employing appropriate surface treatment techniques, these im-                provements can be made without sacrificing the materials desired.Hard tissues often incur damage due to accidents, aging, and other hardness and resistance to corrosion. Transition metal nitride is the preferred material for dental implants. Titanium and its (HEA) are a good choice for ligament replacements. Inorganic-Polymer Com-hension of the spatial organization of hard tissues and their role in posites, on the other hand, provide cartilage with the cushioning and. flexibility needed to preserve joint function.Surface coating allows surface features of biomaterials to be controlled and regulated. It also provides beneficial chemical or physical properties that make implanted biom material "more compatible" with the human body. The selection of coatings has to be predicated on their capacity to endure the distinct biomechanical strains and corrosive conditions linked to every replaceable hard tissue. The surface characteristics of modern materials are usually not sufficient to cope with wettability, adhesion, and biocompatibility; therefore, they need to be modified before being applied or after any further processing.Several surface modification coatings have been developed, with the goal of improving the wear resistance of Ti6Al4V alloy implants. The five main categories of metal nitrides, modulate protein adsorption, reduce inflammation, and improve overall overall performance, are: high/medium entropy alloys, metal oxides, and biocompatibility. The coatings are further broken down into a number of smaller vent issues such as fibrous encapsulation and act as barriers to pathogen pathogen groups for additional categorization.Metal nitrides (MNs) coated Ti6Al4V implants have excellent mechani- in orthopedic applications. MNs coatings have attracted the interest of researchers. Coatings are strategically employed to modify the surface of implants. They can improve the performance, biocompatibility, and overall functionality of the implants.Al4V alloy                nium aluminum nitride (TiAlN) [34], titanium silicon nit Ride (TiSiN) To achieve this, it is necessary to examine the impact of the metal                [94], TiSiCN [95], titanium carbon nitride [96], niobium nitride nitride layer on the mechanical properties of the alloy. In Fig. 7, various advanced nitride coatings are prominently daily use and enhance patient outcomes. Coatings with many                featured, illustrating their application in the surface modification of elements and layers, are used to increase the film thickness and hardness of orthopedic bio-implants.coatings in biomedical engineering. The presents the mechanical characteristics of the diverse nitride coatings. The highest penetration depth for bare stainless steel was 55nm at a load of 0.8 mN. The relationship between coating thickness and hardness is influenced by diverse factors such as material properties and intended application.The properties of nanostructured nitride coatings on commercially available Ti6Al4V substrates and additively produced (AM) products have been studied in previous studies. The current study examined the mechanical and wetting Wear and Corrosion Properties Biocompatible coatings. The coatings were deposited 1.185 GPA COF=0.366, Biomedical implants. Ecorr=(-0.174) V774Icorr =7.75×10(cid:0)9A9A-NbN Magnetron sputtering 78.7GPa COF=(0.19–0.29) Orthopedic systems [138]                Ecorr (-376–240) mV Glyphic cell viability. of biomedical settings.TiAlN and TiN films were found to have different levels of hardness. Multi-layer TiN/Ti coatings were applied to improve the scratch resistance of the Ar-ion-irradiated ion-implanted Ti6Al4V. A maximum adhesion strength of 72N was observed for these coatings, which demonstrated remarkable performance. The hardness of the substrate affected the coating adhesion, with increased substrate hardness associated with better adhesion. The nanoindentation properties of TiAlSiN, TiAlN,TiN, and thin aluminumfilms were examined by Kong et al. TiN-coated specimens [106]. ings have a Young’s modulus of 365GPa and a hardness of 27.06GPa[111]. Researcher Ni et al. [112] surface modified by TiN and TiCrNcoatings is nanoindentation. AlCrBN coating has the maximum hardness of 37.2GPa, elastic modulus were determined using the load-displacement 7A.7A. The reason for the improved adhesive strength of AlCrN is 3.1. Tribological properties of MNs coated Ti6Al4V alloy have significantly higher hardness and thicker coating.The hardness of binary-coated samples (TiN or within these devices) at 24.3GPa is lower than that of the ternary- coated specimens replacements. Coatings with TiVN, TiAlN due to doping play a pivotal role in minimizing material loss. Hard coatings can provide durability and resistance to surface sisted chemical vapor deposition (PACVD) process. The purpose of this work is to increase the resistance of the alloy to corrosion and wear.Metal-nitride coatings can significantly enhance the corrosion capabilities of bioimplants. The wear rate of the TiSiN-coated surface with a silicon content of 17.2wt% was measured at 2.5 × 10(cid:0) 15 m3/N m. The friction coefficients for the uncoated Ti6Al4V surface, TiN, 3.1.3.mples as a function of sliding time [113] were approximately 0.15, 0.18, and 0.2, respectively. These coatings contribute to the long-term success and reliability of bio Implants for medical applications.During the first 15min, the OCP values of the AlCrBN coating demonstrated exceptional anti-wear capabilities. TiAlN- and TiN-coated samples decreased rapidly. The outermost hard coatings of Ti6Al4V substrate are shown by the polarization curves in Fig. 10 (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) (g) (h) (i) (j) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21) (22) (23) (24) (25) (26) (28) (29) (30) (31) (32) (34) (35) (36) (37) (38) (39) (40) (41) (42) (43) (44) (45) (46) (47) (48) (49) (50) (51) (52) (53) (54) (55) (56) (57) (58) (59) (60) (61) (62) (63) (64) (65) (68) (69) (70) (72) (73) (74) (75) (78) (79) (80) (82) (83) (84) (85) (86) (87) (88) (89) (90) (91) (92) (93) (94) (95) (96) (98) (99) (100) (102) (103) (104) (105) (106) (107) (108) (113) (114) (115) (111) (118) (119) (120) (123) (124) (125) (130) (131) (133) (128) (129) (138) (135) (136) (139) (140) (141) (142) (143) (145) (146) (147) (148) (150) (151) (153) (154) (155) (157) (158) (159) (160) (167) (168) (169) (170) (174) (175) (180) (181) (182) (183) (187) (190) (184) (191) (194) (195) (196) (197) (200) (229) (204) (205) (206) (207) (208) (209) (220) (211) (212) (201) (216) (223) (227) (228) (233) (230) (234) (235) (236) (237) (238) (240) (251) (244) (253) (246) (258) (273) (254) (259) (260) (270) (278) (280) (303) (274) (308) (299) (304) (305) (310) (306) (307) (318) (309) (320) (333) (334) (337) (338) (les, TiSiN exhibited the lowest wear rate, followed by TiSiCN. The Ti6Al4V samples exhibiting lower Icorr values and superior corrosion performance. The multilayer TiAlN coating reduced the wear rate and friction lighting the fact that it is more capacitive than resistive.Titanium nitride coatings are commonly utilized as they improve toughness, and ultimately improves wear resistance. The existence of an amorphous structure is advantageous for improving. corrosion-resistant coatings in implant materials. A reduced crystallite size. results in a higher density of grain boundaries, consequently lowering. the elastic modulus, in- coatings. The most effective crystallites in the multilayer film exhibited improved corrosion perfor-coating formulation consisted of 90% (Ti, Al) N and 10% BN, with an average grain size of 26nm.The wettability of a material significantly influences protein hydrophilicity. Water contact angles (WCAs) between biological fluids and the hydrophilic surface of the coating were found to be intimate. The intimate connectionsdemonstrate increased biocompatibility. Wetting property of MNs coated Ti6Al4V alloy all uncoated sample CA values were less than 90◦, suggesting higher wetting property.faces of dental and dental implants were measured to assess the wettability of the TiN-coated surfaces. Both orthopaedic implants enable normal protein adsorption and subsequent contact angle interactions with cell receptors. The study found that hydrophobic surfaces can become contami-                 texture density, according to the study.nodules are mineralized from the extracellular matrix (ECM) duringmicroscale surface roughness was increased by the presence of worm- later phases of osteogenesis. The potential of titanium nitride (TiN) the third day, and the cell appearance became flatter. Seven days later, there was an increase in pseudopodia and overlapping development in metal implants. Surface oxidation via hydrothermal treatment efficiently increases the cell spreading zones on both surfaces. The nitride covering and the osteoconductivity of the material.TiCrN and TiN coated Ti6Al4V, which were synthesised using the SLM process, showed antibacterial characteristics and noncytotoxicity in in vitro studies. The first contact angle of wetting varied between 92 ◦and 50.4◦. The for MC3T3-E1 cell adhesion and proliferation, as demonstrated by laser                contact angle of distilled water, decreased with increasing hydrothermal treatment temperature. This suggests that the wettability of TiN coatings can be enhanced by SLM.The thickness of MNs coatings plays a crucial role in determining the properties of. orthopedic implants. A thicker HA/TiNing a variety of cell lines, including human bone marrow stem cells coating, led to higher roughness, resembling bone structure. The biocompatibility and cellular toxicity of the nitride coat- moting cell growth.mperature and electrolyte content, electrochemical tests revealed remarkable cell excellent corrosion resistance for all coated samples. The coatings uncoated samples, decreasing from 0.34 and 18.27 ×10(cid:0) 6 mm3/N⋅m, to. 0.29 and 0.33 ×10 (cID:0):6 mm3, respectively, exhibited remarkable bactericidal activity. Tantalum nitride (TaN) was shown to be biocompatible by acteristics of TiN coatings. Images showed arc produced nitride coatings accounted for less than 10% of the TiN.11A. Kumar and G. Singh J o u r n a l o f A l l o y s a n d C o m p o u n d s 989(2024)174418774Fig. 12. The actin 8.6GPa. skeleton emphasizes cell adherence to the surfaces, suggesting that reduced average frictional coefficients and wear rates in comparison to TiN and ZrN. coatings interact well with one another.DLC coatings showed high Young’s application in maximizing the performance. Superior tribological and mechanical qualities were revealed at 2.9 ± 0.3GPa in scratch testing. The intrinsic in vitro wear rate was 6.8 ± 1.7 × 10(cid:0) 7 DLC in a promising position for biomedical applications. No cytotoxicity or in-better performance than the CoCrMo alloy. The coatings’ superior flammatory reactions were observed when the cells were integrated onto the DLC coatings.rous standard nitride coating deposition for Ti6Al4V orthopaedic bio implants. Because of its amorphous nature, additional elements, such as W, Si, Mo, can be incorporated into the coating. This technique allows for constant modification of a variety of film properties, including tribological traits, electrical conductivity, and anticorrosion. Diamond-like carbon (DLC) biocompatible coatings are now used in two main biological domains: reducing wear in load-bearing joints and cardiovascular devices.DLC was first investigated in blood-contacting applications to reduce thrombus formation. To minimize platelet adhesion, DLC was used in load-bearing portions of blood vessels. The lower Young’s modulus was approximately 1.3 times greater than that of the alloy Ti6Al4V. A tribofilm was seen to form on the Ti6 Al4V surface when fretting conditions were applied in air.ous biomedical settings. DLC-based materials still have certain limitations with regard to their biocompatibility. Total joint replacement (TJR) is a common cause of failure. DLC coatings offer important insights into the behavior of DLC. coatings without the proper coating or surface treatment when it is put under mechanical stress. The outer layers of DLC change into graphite under sliding wear condi- vantageon by wear, loosening, stiffness, and instability, as well as infection.Liu et al. film became a practical way to protect implants made of titanium. This transition enables facile shearing at load-bearing asperities, leading to extremely low friction and wear rates. DLC coatings offer low-friction, long-lasting, inert, and lubrication upon applying the DLC treatment via spraying.DLC film with 16.3% fluorine had the lowest wear rate, measured at 1.2 ×10(cid:0) 7 mm3/Nm. Wear rate decreased as the. fluorine level in the F-D LC film increased. The nanohardness and modulus of the DLC coating were greater than those of the. dentalribosystems.DLC-coated Ti6Al4V surface showed clear variations in. contact angle. The more wettable DLC-Ti6Al 4V(H) surface had a contact. angle of 38. angle, whilst the DLC- Ti4V(V) surface has a greater contact angle of 86. angle. These variations in contact angle suggested variations in the long-term robustness and dependability of medical implants by examining the corrosion behaviour of DLC- surface wettability and free energy. These physicochemical changes have an impact on the biological reaction seen in bone cell in vitro ex-                and safety. These coatings serve as an effective method for enhancing periments.Ti64 alloys are more susceptible to phobic and somewhat rougher. Its corrosion resistance has been improved mation of bone cells. Applying DLC coating improved surface roughness, wettability, and lubricity. This implies that the vertical (V) surface features, which are comparatively hydro-DLC coatings provide a way to mitigate Ti64’s susceptibility to phobia.compatibility of DLC coated Ti6Al4V alloy. Corrosion resistance. The practicality of DLC as a coating for in vivo uses depends on its. practicality. The impact of adhesive interlayers of titanium or established. biocompatibility, which is confirmed by every study. on the interplay between DLC coated titanium and Ti64 in a ducted. to date.DLC films with integrated components on Ti64 alloys and coatings produced with a 30W bias power produced lower cluster sizes. The high free energy of the Ti64 and showed very slight changes to the surface morphology of the sub-substrate surface is necessary for effective coating adherence. With a corrosion current of 6.47nA/cm2 and a corrosion rate of 8.05nm/year, these coatings showed the lowest results.DLC coatings offer slightly better protection against corrosive agents due to extra low interstitials. These implants can now fit people’s body parts to their thicker barrier. DLC coatings exhibit consis-more accurately because they’re made to match the unique shapes of body parts. The wettability of providing a more robust barrier between the substrate and the biological tissue varies significantly.DLC coatings on Ti6Al4V alloy exhibit a reduction of 40.51% in edge radius, ~45% in cutting forces, and ~56.02% in burr height. If a DLC-coated micro-dimple interface is successfully. successfully ~50.43% in surface roughness, and~56.01% inBurr height, fretting wear problems may be reduced by providing a. compared to an uncoated tool.strength, deformation resistance, and appropriateness morphology and cohesive damage. The heat treatment also promoted the resistance against abrasive wear were found. The susceptibility against cohesive damage also is of outstanding interest for the biological acceptance of the DLC. Thicker DLC coatings also offer superior wear plications of these coatings in mechanical, wetting, tribological, and                resistance.Previous studies have synthesized findings on nanostructured DLC coating properties on both AM and commercially available Ti6Al4V substrates. Vapour deposition techniques, such as vacuum arc deposition and magnetron sputtering, offer improved wear resistance and robust antibacterial capabilities. Laser-basedmultifunctional DLC coatings doped with bioactive elements like copper have great promise to advance the next generation face alloyi. by lowering friction, wear rates, and increasing friction.Cu ions have been identified as having remarkable anti- bio implants. These coatings are a state-of-the-art method to improve bacterial qualities in Cu-doped DLC coatings. The difficulty of implanting Cu onto harsh biomechanical environment of the human body is a major disadvantage. Cu’s poor solubility in ethanol-based solutions presents a ability of orthopaedic implantation procedures by successfully modifying the surface properties of Ti6Al4V implants. In addition, Cu has a propensity to mechanical strength and resistance to corrosion, which presents challenges for the production of DLC-coated joint prosthesis.High entropy alloy (HEA) coatings have become popular alternatives to metallic biomaterials. HEAs can incorporate customized excellent biocompatibility, surface topography, appropriate surface chemistry, and customised element composition design. The manufacturing processes for HEA-based coatings can be broadly classified into the following categories. The discussion assesses the different advanced medium/high entropy alloy coatings employed forMechanical, corrosion, and biOCompatibility qualities necessary for Ti6Al4V orthopedic bio implants and their applica-                HEAs in biomedical applications.Research focused on wear and corrosion resistances, in HEAs. Factors including the quantity of constituent elements, contrast to its predecessor. Then, using RF magnetron sputtering, anatomic ratios, and structural features affect how stable certain equimolar TiTaHfNbZr high-entropy alloy thin film was formed onto a NiTi substrates.Tribological studies of HEA coated Ti6Al4V alloy TiZrNbTaMo HEAs decreased. The Vickers cient of friction, and wear rate. increased from 450 HV to 500 HV, and the yield strength.increases from 1440MPa to 1580MPa when the Ti concentration in the 3.3.2.Previous studies have investigated the properties of nanostructured HEA coatings on AM and commercially available Ti6Al4V substrates. The oxide film is around six times measuring 1.20 ×10–5 mm3/Nm, which was around 25% higher than the Ti6 al4V substrate. The non-oxide HEA film is roughly the 5.31 ×10-5mm3-Nm specific fretting wear rate seen in the control.TiZrNbTaMo - Ti6Al4V-320HV – Coated- Wear rate=(2.20–2.91)×10(cid:0)7 mm3/N.mm, Biomedical implant. Implant materials’ wetting behaviour becomes crucial when they come into contact with physiological fluids during insertion. High-entropy alloys (HEAs) are hydrophobic. Because of their distinct distinct structure, the average wear volume and wear rate (0.72mm3, 1.66 × structures) of HEAs have higher electron work function values and are 31% more inert.Wetting characteristics on sub-the lowest weight loss and wear rate, measuring 1.2mg and 7.5 ×10(cid:0) 4 strates other than Ti6Al4V. The HEA coating also increases the acteristics of the AlCrMoNbZr HEA. coating by a factor of 60 [197]. zirconium alloy substrates using the magnetron co-sputtering method. These coatings provide strong resistance to deterioration and showed that applying HEA sheets to the Si (100) substrate significantly boosted its surface hydrophobicity, which makes them appropriate for orthopaedic implants used.High-entropy alloys (HEAs) have a distinct surface chemistry and changeable biocompatibility. Corrosion resistance of HEA coated Ti6Al4V alloy of components allows for the development of better mechanical qualities. The structure of HEAs, which is typified by a applications, produces a chemical arrangement that is spatially disordered and increases. the evaluation process. Preparing materials for biomedical applications requires optimizing.High-entropy alloys have been the focus of several studies over the mechanical characteristics. The in vivo and in vitro properties of these alloys are essential for the application of HEAs as coating novel engineering alloys. By blocking the flow of oxygen, HEA films provide corrosion pro- could have been caused by possible toxicity concerns. These passive study indicates that such effects can be considered equally safe for this alloy.Pit formation is less likely when passivation elements broblasts are included. Wang et al. examined the biocompatibility of a homoge- TiZrHfNbTa high-entropy alloy. Heat treatment of HEAs can increase corrosion resis- into touch with living tissue.High-entropy alloys (HEAs) with refractory elements such as W, Nb, onstrates outstanding properties, boasting a remarkably high hardnessMo, Ta, and V. Except for vanadium, most of these el- compared to CP-Ti, with the TiMoVWCr HEA showing enhanced cell viability. HEAs are promising for use in and porous scaffold with a pore-forming agent diameter of 2.5µm because of their remarkable mechanical properties, corro- yielded optimal surface mechanical properties.Gashti et al. [190] inves- resistance, and biocompatibility. Biomedical HEAoxide variant displayed increased thickness (813–904nm) and rough- coatings provide a wide range of surface topographies. Equimolar HEA coatings have balanced con- due to a protective oxide layer, alongside a higher wetting angle (69.86, s)The films showed increased enhanced resistance to wear and corrosion. For orthopaedic or dental implants, the films also displayed an mechanical biocompatibility of the TiZrNbTaFe alloy. Metals continue to be more common in orthopedic applications than biomaterials like polymers and ceramics because of their excep-                tional physical properties.Composite coatings of MO and P-MO composite coated Ti6Al4V are often used in medical implants. Gold, iron oxide, aluminium oxide, zirconium oxide, tita- Metals are a broad category of inorganic materials with special qualities. The primary qualities such as electronic conductivity, magnetic characteristics, cat-                mechanical, corrosion, wetting, and biological characteristics of metal alytic activity are covered in this section.surface character-ishlydecrease wear, offer antimicrobial characteristics, and increase corro- istics of Ti6Al4V implants. Dip coating, electrodeposition, spin coating (including decreasing wear) and spray coating are common techniques used for polymer coating deposi- ples of metals. In-situ mineralization and a characteristics render metals adaptable to a wide range of uses. 3-D printing was used to create ceramic oxide coatings ularly in the biological domain. Furthermore, the use of magnesium (Mg) in orthopaedic applications has attracted a lot of attention in recent years.Metal oxide nanoparticles, including TiO2, ZnO, ZrO2 and Fe3O4, are recognized as cutting-edge methods for improving tribological characteristics, especially in orthopaedics. When dry and lubricated, the wear rates of the coated samples were around 17% and 4% respectively, less than those of the uncoated samples. Calcium tribological performance of graphene oxide (GO) coatings may be improved by the existence of a DA transition layer. These materials have great potential for use experimental findings.roperties of MO and P-MO composite coated Ti6Al4V M-TamOn coating ranged from 0.1 to 0.15, showing less variability than the TamOn film. Many studies have explored hy-recoverycomprises, as described in theories of nanocomposite materials, en- droxyapatite (HA) coatings to enhance bone implants due to HA’s high tensile strength, hardness, Young's modulus, flexural bioactivity, biocompatibility, and low elastic modulus. Higher than logical performance of the titanium alloy was greatly enhanced by the 8YSZ and A4Z composite coatings by 1.65 and 1.2 times, respec- Fe3O4/HA coating. The main factor that led to the improvement in the alumina coating had a harder surface (9.43 ±3.5GPa). The tribological properties was the change in friction mechanisms on the. polymer composite samples made of cal- Ti-Fe3O 4/HA surface from sliding friction to rolling friction behaviors with ABS (acrylonitrile butadiene styrene) were also examined.Al2O3 nanoparticles were added to polyester resin. With a specific wear                modulus but lower tensile and impact strengths compared to pure ABS, rate of 1.41×10(cid:0) 6 mm3/Nm and a coefficient of friction (COF) of 0.26,while ABS/nanoparticle composites showed increased impact strength. Amorphous coatings show greater COF (0.31) and wear rates that were theoretically brittle to increase their fracture tough.ZrO2 nanoparticles were introduced to a PEEK matrix at different wear resistance in dry sliding contact with an alumina ball. Using metal oxide coatings to reinforce the materials, the study found that the coatings’ micro-hardness was significantly enhanced by the inclu- the covered oxygen-hardened alloy’s wear rate was reduced by a factor of two.ured metal oxide coatings on commercially available Ti6Al4V substrate and AM have been studied in the past for biomedical applications. Previous studies have investigated the properties of nanostructurur. The current study focuses on biomedical applications of TiO2 and ZnO2 nanoparticles. The results show that the coatings are biocompatible and have good bioactivity and cyto-compatibility.ed inorganic-polymer composite coatings applied to additive manufacturing (AM) substrates. Corrosion resistance of MO and P-MO composite coated Ti6Al4V resistance, heat stability, and superior barrier qualities are some of their key characteristics. PMMA-silica may be used to solve Orthopedic and dental implants’ difficulties wit wit.Ti6Al4V alloy hybrid coated steel, in particular, showed remarkable performance. Strong adhesion, low porosity, mechanical significant advantages as dental restorative materials when compared to dental amalgams, porcelains, and silicate cements. These advantages electrolytic oxidation (PEO) layer had a low contact angle of 2.84◦prior to the addition of the PEDOT: PSS layer. Silver (Ag), renowned for its antimicrobial properties, is frequently used in dental implants.Chitosan (CS) and gelatin (Gel) exhibited excellent biocompati-                sion resistance, appropriate bioactivity, and sufficient cell survival. Titanium substrates produced by magnetron sputtering has a major effect on albumin uniformly coated with the resultant slurry. By selectively entrapping the albumin, the maximum albumin adsorption was drug within the Ag-PVA nanocapsules, these composite coatings not observed on the hydrophobic surface.By oxidising Ti discs with H2O2, et al. created a novel antibacterial coating. The coating promoted high zyme film (PTLF) and a GNPL layer were successively deposited as part of albumin adsorption. The photothermal characteristics of GNPL enabled effective altering its hydrophilic character, and it also enhanced surface eradication of bacteria.Superhydrophobic TiO2 coatings were created on conductivity and degrade non-toxically. The uncoated Ti6Al4V alloy, the MAO-treated sample, and the improved osteoblastic-like cell adhesion and proliferation all demonstrated excellent corrosion resistance. The wetting angle increased as a result of atomic layer deposition might cause hydroxyapatite (Hap) to develop in simulated bodily fluid alteration. The contact angle of the ZnO-coated sample (SBF). Notably, the creation of coatings free of cracks was aided by the use of 100% HA and FGM laser Magnesium (Mg)Fekry et al. created a novel nano-composite film coating on a titanium alloy by electrochemically. depositing chitosan (CS), titanium dioxide nanoparticles (TiO2 NPs), and diiodonomethane. These novel coatings demonstrated. enhanced antibacterial and corrosion resistance, which made them. useful for orthopaedic applications.Du et al. [251] employed a multistep chanical, wear, corrosion, wettability, and biological applications. to create composite coatings that had high adhesion and antibacterial qualities. The thickness of the P-MO composite. coatings has a                and the production of a hydroxyapatite (HAp) layer was aided by the substantial and diverse. impact on a number of aspects, such as the presence of bioactive glass.In biomedical applications, thicker coatings can enhance mechanical implant performance and longevity. Thinner coatings prioritize Catauro et al.’s diversity in the coatings’ toughness and may promote cell adhesion, beneficial for implants. The coating thickness range of 2.7 μm to 11.3 μm measured by Catauros indicates a significant diversity in coating thickness.coating was signif- saw a shift of about 300mV. The data provided in Table S4 and S5 of the supplementary material highlights the significance of MO and P-MO coatings thickness onbiomedical applications. Despite their thinness, these coatings significantly metal oxide-polymer composite coatings on Ti6Al4V substrates, evidenced by lower corrosion rates.There is a growing interest in composite coatings inte-adjacent to the substrate. This barrier effectively prevents the dissolu- grating Zirconium dioxide (ZrO2) and polymers. The coating consists of erties. PEEK, a preferred polymer for biomedical applications. The spread use of TiO2 and ZnO, a metal oxide, finds frequent use in the biomedical sector, particularly in implant technology..7 surface area, stability, and biocompatibility, are enhanced by the pro-                μm and 12.7 μm, respectively, attributed to voltage-time curve differ- tective polymer coating. Higher ZrO2 concentrations correlated with reduced precise control over surface properties, crucial for promoting cell rejuvenation. additive manufacturing will be essential to producing implants that are specifically tailored to each patient’s needs. The creation of innovative coatings has revolutionized the fabrication of bio- multilayer binary, ternary nitride, and composite structures. Transition metal nitrides and metal oxides, notably tita- Table 8                ASTM and ISO standards for assessing coating properties and thickness, are particularly attractive for orthopedic applications.High entropy alloys (HEAs) present intriguing possibilities due to their unique surface chemistry and tunable biocompatibility. Despite their higher cost compared to conventional alloys, efforts are underway 2.to optimize their use as coating materials. Metal oxide nanoparticles have also garnered attention for their low friction coefficients, are ideal for use in orthopedic implants.of coating thickness on properties like me- Coatings varnishes by scratching                chanical strength, wear resistance, corrosion resistance, wetting with a hemispherically.behavior, and biocompatibility is significant across various coating types. Thicker coatings generally offer better mechanical and disk Apparatus bearing materials with improved corrosion protection, prolonging 7 Wettability ASTM D7334 - Standard ISO 19403–2, progressivelysubstrate lifespan. thinner coatings may prioritize toughness and cell adhesion, 8. Biocomp compatibility ASTM F981, F2382–18 - ISO 10993–1 - Biologicalparticularly beneficial for biomedical implants. Balancing these factors Standard Practice for evaluation of medicaldevices is crucial for optimizing coating thickness based on material composi- Assessment of devices - Part 1:Compatibility of Evaluation and testing, deposition method, and desired properties.Coatings will become increasingly important as technology develops. Doped dopedcoatings composed of high- and medium-entropy alloys could revolutionize biomedical applications. Micro-and nano-structured coatings are important biological response drivers that affect patient longevity and well-being. The future of biomaterial surfaces will be shaped by these multidisciplinary technologies, which present exciting oppor-.In recent years, there have been significant advance-application of additive manufacturing techniques for Ti6Al4V. The focus was on enhancing me- biomedical field: processes, properties and applications. A state-of-the-art review of the fabrication and characteristics of titanium and its. characteristics for biomedical applications, Bio-Des. Manuf. (2021) 1–25. The study conducted a comprehensive review of. the currently employed coatings aimed at. ensuring corrosion resistance, bioactivity, and. bioactivity through specific coatings, such as Nitride, DLC, HEA, metal oxide.The study underscores the coating of im-.tors in advancing additive manufacturing for biomedical applications. Despite the distinct characteristics. by different types of coatings, it is evident that each type [13] S.A. Tofail, E.P. Koumoulos, A. Bandyopadhyay, S. Bose, L. O’Donoghue, possesses unique properties.Gurminder Singh: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original Developments in Additive-Manufactured Intermetallic Compounds. ANKIT KUMAR: writing – original draft, Investiga- Implant Applications. B. Priyadarshini, M. Rama, Chetan, U. Vijayalakshmi: Bioactive coating as a surface modification technique for biocompatible metallic implants. S. Thomas: Additive manufacturing in the biomedical field-recent researchDevelopments, Results Eng. 16 (2022) 100661.Authors are thankful to IIT Bombay Institute of Eminence for the Post biocompatible thin films for biomedical application. We extend our gratitude to metal-am.com, 3dprintingindustry.com and 3Dprinting.com for their invaluable assistance in creating diagrams.epared using 3D printing and pressureless microwave sintering, Mater.biodegradable orthopaedic implant, Am. J. Biomed. Eng.: C. 106 (2020) 110247. Additive manufacturing of metallic implants: A review on processes, materials. and designs, J. Orthop. Res. 34 (2016) 369–385.The study was published in the Journal of Biomedical Materials Research Part B: Applied Biomaterials: process. It was published by The Society for BiomMaterials, which is an official journal of the Australian and Korean societies for biomaterials. The study also appeared in the journal of The Japanese Society for. Biomedical. Materials. Research. Part B of the journal, Mater. Res. Innov. 17 (2013) s106–s112. The paper was also published in The. Journal of The Society. for Biomed. Materials Research, part B of that journal, and in the. journal. of The. Australian Society forBiomedical Materials, part A, (2007) 72-84 bone implants, Appl. Sci. Manuf. 1 (2023) 100009. The. behavior of selective laser melted and conventionally manufactured Ti6Al4V for. biomedical applications has been compared to that of. Ti-6Al-4V deposited by PIID and. PEMS+PIID Preliminary study on the corrosion resistance, antibacterial activity and. antibacterial. activity andtechniques for biomedical applications, Surf Coat.technol. Technol. Techol. 332 (2017) 223–232 cytotoxicity of selective-laser-melted Ti6.Aln.4V-xCu alloys, M.ater Sci. Eng.: C. 72 (2016) 669–676. The work was published as part of the. The journal’s. Part A: The Journal of the Society. of Biomed Materials Research.38] S. Gorsse, C. Hutchinson, M. Goun´e, R. Banerjee, Additive manufacturing of dental applications. 39] H.-y Li, D.-n Huang, K.-f Ren, J. Ji, Inorganic-polymer composite coatings for Eng.: C. 54 (2015) 94–100. 40] D. Słota, W. Florkiewicz, A. Sobczak-Kupiec, Ceramic- polymer coatings on Ti-6Al- laser additive manufactured Ti–6Al–4V component.fabricated by selective laser melting,                for Biomaterials and the Korean Society for Biommaterials, 84 (2008) 444-451. Mater. Sci. Eng.: C. 109 (2020) 110519. A review—metastable β titanium alloy for biomedical Alloys with Laser Texturing, ACS Omega 7 (2022) 31081–31097.DLC coating over pre-oxidized and textured Ti6Al4V for superior adhesion and tribo-performance of hip implant, Surf Coat. Technol. Adv. 3 (2022) 100029 440 (2021) 128492.70 (2023) 1–36. [74] V. Kashyap, P. Ramkumar, D. Bhatia, Simulated analysis of Ti-6Al- [76] E. Alakoski, V.-M. Tiainen, A. Soininen, Y.T. Konttinen, applications of diamond-like carbon coatings-current status.Titanium-nitride coating is used to coat implants. The coating can also be used as a coating bearing materials for artificial cervical discs of Ti6Al4V. Titanium nitride can be used to coating other materials, such as polyethylene terephthalate (PET) coatings. It is also used to cover the surface of titanium dioxide (Ti) implants, which can be coated with a coating of TiAlN or TiAlSiN. This article is based on a study published in the Journal of Physics: Conference Series, IOP Publishing, 2017 012035. For confidential support call the Samaritans in the UK on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or see www.samaritans.org for details. In the U.S. call the National Suicide Prevention Line on 1-800-273-8255 or visit www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org., G.-H. Lee, S.-M. Chung, I.-S. Lee and C. Chen, 3D-printed. Ti6Al4V femoral component of knee: Improvements in wear and biological. characterization of zirconia 2322–2332. Surface modification of metallic bone coatings on Ti-6Al-4V alloy, Surf. Coatol. Technol. 404 (2020) 126429.tallic biomaterials with active antipathogenic properties, Smart Appl. Surf. Sci. 258 (2012) 2088–2092. The. properties of Ti45Nb alloys by TiN, TiAlN monolayers, and TiAln/TiN multilayer.The study looked at the wear and corrosion resistance of Ti–6Al–4V alloy by deposition of applications. It also examined the bio-tribological and biomechanical properties of CrAlTiN and CrN/NbN coatings on Ti6Al4V. The study was published in the journal of the American Chemical Society (ACS), which is a member of the Chemical Society of America.ty of dental implant surfaces II: Biological and. Molecular.ty of implant surfaces, Acta Biomater. 10 (2014) 2907–2918.Developed on SiAlON Tool Inserts via Magnetron Sputtering Process, J. Mater. Eng. Perform. (2023) 1–19. Saos-2 cells on polypropylene surfaces achieved by surface texturing and carbon.Titanium nitride coatings prepared by magnetron sputtering to improve the bioactivity and. tribological behavior of titanium nitride (TiN) osteogenic activity for titanium alloy implants. Ti-6Al-4V alloy through surface texturing and nitriding is biocompatible and non-toxic before and after functionalization with Surf Coat. Technol. 425 (2021) 127686.Researchers have investigated the corrosion behavior of titanium and the Ti6Al4V alloy for dental implants. They have also investigated the tribocorrosion properties of diamond-like carbon (DLC) coatings. The study was published in the Journal of the American Chemical Society (JACS)Nanodiamond particles can be incorporated into thin films using nitrogen doping. The nanodiamonds can also be used to create nanomaterials for biomedical applications. The material can be used in a variety of ways, including dental implants. The materials have the potential to be used for a range of medical applications, as well as in the manufacture of new materials for new products.orrosion behavior of a nanocrystalline TiZrN engineering, CRC Press, 2008. The coating on biomedical titanium alloy, Surf. Coat. Technol. 369 (2019) 79–86. A. Morton, H.C. Taylor, L.E. Murr, O.G. Delgado, C.A. Terrazas, R.B. Wicker, In W. Lui, S. Zhang, S.-Y. Lien, Effect of substrate bias on biocompatibility of. selective laser gas nitriding for composite TiN/Ti-6Al-4V fabrication via. laser amorphous carbon coatings deposited on Ti6Al4V by PECVD.Diamond-like carbon for biomedical applications. in: 719 (2021) 138487. The carbon content of Ti-DLC coatings can affect the corrosion and tribocorrosion performance of Ti6Al4V under fretting conditions. Diamond-like Carbon Coatings by Cryogenic Treatment, Coatings 12 (20 21) 42. treatment and Si-D LC or chitosan-based coatings, Mater. Sci. Eng.: C. 121 ( 2021) 121. treatment.DLC 111848.coatings on tribological properties of titanium alloy under grease lubrication, [181] K. Weicheng, Y. Zhou, H. Jun, Electrochemical performance and corrosion, Diam Relat. Mater. Res. Express 7 (2020) 066408. mechanism of Cr–DLC coating on nitrided Ti6Al4V alloy by magnetron, [155] H. Ding, V. Fridrici, G. Guillonneau, S. Sao-Joao, J. Geringer, J.-K. Fontaine, sputtering, D.P. Kapsa, Investigation on mechanical properties of tribofilm formed on. [182] M. Birkett, A.W. Zia, D-K. Devarajan, Soni, M.I. Panayiotidis, T.J. Joyce, M.-H. Konttinen, Multi-functional bioactive silver- and copper-total joint replacements: A review, Biomed Mater Res. Part A: Off.. Baptista, J.P. Oliveira, An overview of high-entropy. alloys: A review, High. -Entropy Mater.: Theory, Exp., Appl. (2021) 435–522. Liu, Z. Ma, H. Zhao, L. Ren, and W. Zhang, Nano-indentation of biomimetic. high artificial bone material based on porous Ti6Al4V substrate with high entropy alloy coating. Fe22Co22Ni22Ti22Al12 high entropy alloy coating, Mater. Today Com Com Com. 26 (2020) 1099–1133.The study looked at the properties of TiTaMoVZr High-Entropy Alloy Film on Ti–6Al–4V Substrate. It also looked at applications of metal oxide nanoparticles in advanced clinical applications. The results were published in the journal of Nanomaterials.a–Nb–Mo–Zr High Entropy Alloy in Human Body Emulating Biofluids. N.J. Hallab, J.J Jacobs, 2.5.4 - Orthopedic Applications, in: W.R. Wagner, S. Wagner and S. Yaszemski, Wear and high-temperature (Fourth Edition), Academic Press, 2020, pp. 1079–1118. G. Perumal, M. Geetha, R. Asokamani, N. Alagumurthi, Wear studies on plasma. D. Liu, H. Xie, Z. Ma, W. Zhang, L. Ren, Simultaneous enhancement of sprayed Al2O3–40wt% 8YSZ compo compo.site ceramic coating on Ti–6Al–4V alloy used for wear resistance performances via porous substrate and for biomedical applications, Wear 311 (2014) 101–113. FeCoNiTiAl high entropy alloy coating of artificial joint materials, J. Mater. Res. 19 (2022) 2907–2915. Strengthening acrylonitrile-styrene (ABS) with nano-sized and micron-sized calcium carbonate, in: Advances in Materials Processing: Select Proceedings of ICFMMP, 2020, pp. 13–20.erant fuel cladding, Surf. Coat. Technol. 417 (2021) 127228. mechanical, tribological properties and corrosion resistance of reactive sputtered[204] H. Wan, D. Song, X. Shi, Y. Cai, T. Li, C. Chen, Corrosion behavior of Al0. 4CoCu0. tantalum oxide coating on Ti6Al4V alloy via introducing multiple interlayers. 2Ti0. 25 high-entropy alloy coating via 3D printing laser cladding in a Ceram. Int. 48 (2022) 5983–5994.PMMA-silica nanocomposite coating: Effective. PMMA-Silica NanocomposITE coating: effective. High entropy alloys for characterisation and protein adsorption. High-entropy alloys with good properties as potential biomaterials. High. Entropy Alloy. (2020). 1317–1326.Novel Ti-Zr-Hf-Nb-Fe refractory high-entropy alloys for potential biomedical applications. The influence of ZnO oxide layer on the physicochemical behavior of Ti6Al4V alloys. TiO2/pcl hybrid layers prepared cross-linked with a conductive polymer coating for the surface modification of titanium implants.Nanomed: composite coatings on Ti-6Al-4V, and its in vitro corrosion behaviour for biomedical applications. Nanomed: Nanocomposite coating on titanium metal with integrated properties of biofilm. Nanoomed: Electrophoretic deposition of silica and its. cell proliferation, and sustained drug delivery.The study was published in the journal Mater Chem. Chem. Phys. Ed. The authors used atomic layer deposition to create TiO2/ZrO2 mixed nanofilms for dental implants. The study also looked at ZnONRs-PDA/PMPC nanocomposites on the surface of Soc. Biomater. 83 (2007) 1087–1095.The study was published in the journal J. Mater Res. Res. Technol Technol. 15 (2021) The authors used a combination of PMMA-SiO2 organic-inorganic hybrid coating application to Ti-6Al-4V alloy as well as Zn-doped ZrO2/TiO2 coatings on the alloy. They also used the sol-gel method to create a conductive polymer coating on the Ti6Al4V implants.273] T. Moskalewicz, M. Warcaba, S. Zimowski, A. Łukaszczyk, Improvement of the Ti-18371–18381. 6Al-4V Alloy’s tribological properties and electrochemical corrosion resistance by.