Dry wear and corrosive wear behavior of laser-cladded. Co19.6Cr and Fe43.6Ni coatings were prepared on the 304 stainless steel using laser cladding technology. The dry wear resistance of Fe.4Cr9Co6B17.5Si1.5Nb5 coating is approximately 3.5 times that of 304 Stainless Steel under all friction load conditions. The average microhardness of. Fe19. 6Cr and. Fe 43.6 Ni coatings is 578.6 HV0.2 and 632.5 HV 0.2, respectively. The coating with high hardness is less sensitive to friction load changes during dry wear process. The coatings are mainly composed of FCC solid solution, boride, and Laves phases.The CoCrFeNiBSiY coating is 2.68 times and 2.83 times that of 304 stainless steel, respectively. During the corrosive wear process, a dense passivation film is formed on the surface of bothcoatings, which significantly reduces their friction coefficient and volume loss rate. The development of advanced materials and surface coating technologies is one of the effective methods to solve the corrosion-wear coupling failure of materials in extreme environments.Stainless steel is a commonly used structural material in marine chemical inertness. 304 stainless steel is prone to martensitic TiO2 coating on the surface of 304 stainless Steel by the sol-gel dip. CoCrFeNiBSiY and FeNiCrCoBSiNb powders have excellent corrosion resistance due to their high hardness.High-entropy amorphous Instorphous.b powders were prepared using argon atomization technology. The atomized gas pressure is 2.0–6.0 MPa. The phase identification of spherical powders was carried out using sandpaper. Doping with elements such as Mo, Nb or Ta can also improve the corrosion resistance.High-entropy composite coatings have pA. excellent corrosion and wear resistance. The particle size distribution of both powders was analyzed using a laser particle size analyzer. Preparation of laser-cladded coatings are the main factors affecting the corrosive wear behavior of CoCrFe- NiMo coatings in simulated seawater. The effects of pure corrosion 304 stainless steel with a size of 100 mm ×50 mm ×12 mm was also studied.arch by Hua [25] et al. found that the wear rate of TiZrNbTaMo technology (Clean Star-H100, Changsha worldstar laser technology Co. Ltd., Changsha, China) in PBS solution was lower than that under dry wear conditions. The coating was prepared on the surface of 304 stainless steel using a laser cladding system under a high-purity argon atomization technology. CoCrFeNiBSiY and FeNiCrCoBSiNb coatings were prepared. The phase identification of the laser cladded coatings was carried out. The microstructure and mechanical properties of both using an X-ray diffractometer (AL-2700B, Dandong Aolong Radiative Techniques Group Co., Ltd., China) were characterized. The dry wear and corrosive wear behavior of both coatings and 304 Stainless Steel were investigated.ed coatings were prepared using a metallographic sample mounting machine with phenolic resin. The samples were ground withsandpaper and then polished. The cross-sectional micromorphology of the laser cladded coatings was characterized using field emission scanning electron microscopy equipped with a backscattered electro-2.1 detector. The microstructure of the worn coating surface was characterized.Wear rate (W) at each location is the average of three. Coating composed of face-centered cubic (FCC) solid solution phase with a small surface. A platinum sheet amount of borides were used as counter electrode phase. Preliminary research results show that the borideand a saturated calomel electrode (SCE) were used.Both dry wear and corrosive wear tests use Si3N4 balls with a diameter of 6 mm as the friction pair. Surface roughness of samples was measured using a three-dimensional topography measuring instrument in accordance with the ISO 25178 standard. The indicating that there is a certain amount of nanocrystalline or amor- EIS measurements were performed in a frequency range from 100 kHz phous phase in both powders.CoCrFeNiBSiY and FeNiCrCoBSiNb powders are mainly composed of FCCsolid solution, borides, and a small amount of Lavas phase. X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of the powders show that high-intensity diffraction peaks appear in the diffraction angle range of 25◦–35◦. According to previous research results, this may be due to the generation of new boride phases during the laser cladding process.CoCrFeNiBSiY and FeNiCrCoBSiNb powders were subjected to EDS analysis. EDS results show that the chemical composition on top of both coatings is very close to the composition of the corresponding powders. The distribution of Fe, Ni, and Co elements outside the gray strips is relatively uniform. The microhardness distribution and average micro-hardness of both laser cladded coatings was also found to be uniform.The average microhardness of CoCrFeNiBSiY and FeNiCrCoBSiNbcoatings is 578.6 and 632.5 (HV0.2) respectively, which is 3 times that of 304 stainless steel. The main reason is due to the precipitation of strengthening phases such as borides and solid solution strengthening caused by lattice distortion. It can be seen from Fig. 5 that the material has high chemical stability, while a low corrosion current indicates it has a high corrosion potential.Coatings exhibit good metallurgical bonding with the substrate. Both coatings contain a small number of dispersed fine pores. The CoCrFeNiBSiY coating has a low current density, indicating that the coating has excellent corrosion resistance. 304 stainless steel has the largest capacitive arc radius, and its excellent corrosion resis.Coating slopes of the log Z-log f curves of both coatings and 304 stainlesspowder. Two pattern-like structures with different morphologies are close to (cid:0) 1, indicating the pseudocapacitive characteristic of FeNiCrCoBSiNb coating. In the CoCrFeNiBSiY coating, the Crsurface. A passivation film and an electric double layer exist at the. top of the coating.e/electrolyte solution interface, and Rfilm represents the total.EDS analysis results of marked positions in Fig. 5 (at.%). resistance of the passivation film and the electric double layer. The lower the Rfilm value, the easier it is for the. charge to pass through the passivated film. Equivalent capacitance Qfilm4 56.24 5.88 19.50 11.82 1.95 – 4.60 (constant phase angle element CPE) is used for fitting instead of pure C.C +Boride 587.1 Cheng et al. [37] Ni1.5CrCoFe0.5Mo0.1Nb0.55 Laser cladding FCC +Laves 573.5 Wen et.al. [35] Cr20Cu20Fe20Ni20Al20 Plasma cladding BCC 429.2 Wang etAl. [38]  Ni1. 5CrCo Fe0. 5 Mo0. 1Nb 0.5 wt%NaCl solution at room temperature. Figure 8. Potentiodynamic polarization and EIS curves of the laser cladded FeCoNiCrBSiY coating and Fe co-located FeNiCrCoBSiNb coating. Table 9. A series of electrochemical parameters fitted from the potentiodynamic. polarization and. EIS. curves. The Cr/Fe ratio of the passivation film is 1.8, which is significantly. significantly higher than the equivalent capacitance Q [42]. Q includes the constant Y0 and higher than 0.15 of the Fe NiCrCobsiNB coating. The closer the system is to an ideal capacitance, the closer the. Dry wear and corrosive wear resistance of laser. cladded coatings and coating is to 1.5.CoCrFeNiBSiY and FeNiCrCoBSiNb coatings and 304 stainless steel were investigated. The passivation film formed on the surface of the corrosion-resistant coatings was divided into two stages: the running-in period and the stable period. As the load increases, the average friction of the coatings increases as the reciprocating cycles increase. This may be due to the particles being peeled off during the dry wear process. Wear debris with a low hardness of 304 stainless steeve was found to be of low hardness.The friction coefficient of both coatings and 304 stainless steel under a 30 N load remains almost unchanged compared to that under a 50 N load. Under dry wear conditions, the average friction coefficients of the CoCrFeNiBSiY coating are 1.54 and 1.62 respectively, which are corrosive wear is slightly higher than that under dry wear with a normal load of 1.11. When the load increases to 50 N, the friction coefficients decrease significantly compared with the case of 30 N. This is mainly because there are significant differences in the failure mechanisms of materials under dry and corrosive conditions.Coating after dry wear is relatively rough. The oxide layer is relatively thicker and better combined with the substrate. Under dry wear condition ratio of Fe/(CoCrNi) is only about 0.4. When the load increases to 50 N, the volume wear debris. increases by 24 %. This can be inferred that the oxide layer formed on the surface of. 304 stainless steel.The oxide layer is mainly enriched in Cr, Fe, and Ni. The volume wear rates of CoCrFe- is higher than that of 304 stainless steel. Under a load fragments, resulting in an increase in the roughness of the coating sur- of 30 N, the volume loss rate of corrosive wear of 304 Stainless Steel is face.The volume wear rates of CoCrFeNiBSiY and FeNiCrCoBSiNb are 0.35 times and 0.5 times that of 304 stainless steel, conditions for all materials. Obvious corrosion products can be found on both materials. This shows that the corrosive wear resistance performance the surfaces of all materials is the same.The oxide layer formed on the surface of the. CoCrFeNiBSiY coating is thicker. The oxide layer is discontinuous and has cracks in multiple directions about 0.3. The Fe/(CoCrNi) ratio of the oxidelayer is about 1.5. EDS analysis results show that these oxides are mainly FeCrCoBSiNb.CoCrFeNiBSiY and FeNiCrCoBSiNb coatings and 304 stainless steel suffered dry wear and corrosivewear under 50 N load. As the solidification process proceeds, the heat.load significantly changes the morphologies of the oxide layer formed on. dissipation speed in the area near the center of the molten pool accel-the surface of all materials after dry wear.The size of dendrites becomes smaller and gradually trans-ficient of 304 stainless steel under dry wear conditions. This may be the reason why the dendrite size dramatically increases as the load increases. The cracking of the oxide layer becomes more serious and the resulting in an increase in the nucleation and solidification rates. The oxide layer on the surface of the FeNiCrCoBSiNb coating is faster along the direction of large temperature gradient, but there are more fine oxide debris on the coating surface. And due to the disturbance of the molten pool, “wicker-like” d endrites are formed.Coating after corrosive wear under 50 N load is smoother and denser. As the load increases from 30 N to 50 N, mutual solubility of elements and form a solid solution structure. The microhardness of CoCrFeNiBSiY and FeNiCrCoBSiNb coatings in this study are 578.6 HV and 632.5 HV, respectively.During the laser. cladding process, the FeNiCrCoBSiNb coating increased from 1.5 to 1.7. The powder quickly reaches a superheated state. This phenomenon is similar to the results reported by Cheng et al.[37] and Ma et. al. [50].CoCrFeNiBSiY coating exhibits excellent wear resistance properties. If the proportion of Fe element in the oxide layer formed on the coating is too high, the volume expansion c c h n o lo g y is too low. The oxide layer is too thin, easily cracked, and has no protective content of alloying elements. This is the main reason why the CoCr-provides no protection (e.g. iron).The oxide layer on the surface of 304.rosive wear and dry wear behavior of both laser cladded coatings and. stainless steel is broken when the load increases to 50 N. Normally, the volume loss rate of metal materials. is low, and the bonding strength between. the oxide layer and the coating is weak, which is not conducive to the. dition. The wear rate of both coatings under corrosive wear condition was significantly lower than that of dry wear, as shown in Fig. 10. The microhardness of both CoCrFeNiBSiY and FeNiCrCoBSiNb confirms that the passivation film generated on the. surface of bothcoatings is approximately 3 times that of the 304 stainless steel.The corrosion resistance of CoCrFeNiBSiY coating is significantly superior to that of FeNiCrCoBSiNb coating. The passivation film formed on the surface of 304 stainless steel is less sensitive to load than the oxide layer on the coating. XPS analysis results found that the Cr/Fe ratio in the passivation meticulouslypeeled off in the form of flakes when the load increases to 50 N.It was found that a dense passive film was formed on the surface of zation. of 304 stainless steel is partially removed during the corrosive process with a load of 30 N. When the load increased to 50 N, a Xu Luqian: Visualization, Data curation. similar phenomenon was also observed. The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests.The volume wear rate of the CoCrFeNiBSiY coating is significantly lower than that of 304 stainless steel and FeNiCrCoBSiNb. The Fe/(CoCrNi) ratio of the passivation film on the surface of the coating increases from 0.3 to 0.6 as the friction load of China increases from 30 N to 50 N.CoCrFeNiBSiY and FeNiCrCoBSiNb coatings were successfully tribocorrosion of 304SS in artificial seawater. Both coatings are mainly composed of FCC solid so-. The average microhardness of. CoCrFe NiBSiy and CoNiCr CoBSi Nb is 578.6 HV0.2 and 578 HV 0.2, both of which are approximately 3 times that of 304. P. Sivapirakasam, M. Surianarayanan, Corrosion behaviour of ZrO2-TiO2 nano-composite coating on stainless steel under simulated marine environment, Mater. Stainless steel. Today: Proc. 27 (2020) 2492–2497, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pmatsci.2013.10.001.portional to their microhardness values. The CoCrFeNiBSiY coating exhibits superior corrosive wear pmatsci.resistance under different friction load conditions. This is mainly [10] Y. Li, H. Fu, K. Wang, X. Yang, B. Zong, J. Lin, Effect of Mo addition onmicrostructure and wear resistance of laser clad AlCoCrFe Ni-TiC composite.C. Liu, X. Qiu, J. Peng, Z. Wang, Structure and properties of laser cladding CoCrNi. C. Suryanarayana, A. Inoue, Bulk Metallic Glasses, CRC Press, 2017. H. Zhang, Y. Pan, Y.-Z. He, Synthesis and characterization of FeCoNiCrCu high-development status of laser. cladding: a review.The study looked at wear, corrosion, and tribocorrosion behavior of Mo-containing cladded Fe25Co25Ni25(B0.7Si0.3)25 high entropy alloy coatings fabricated by laser cladding. It also looked at the coupling effect of immersion corrosion and cavitation erosion of NiCoCrAlYTa coatings in artificial seawater.Corrosion and tribo-corrosion behaviors of nano-lamellar of corrosion resistance property of Ti–6Al–4V alloy fabricated by electron beam. Corros. Sci. 127 (2017) 101–109, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.corsci.2022.110305.Tribocorrosion performance of 316L. stainless steel enhanced by laser clad 2-layer coating using Fe-based amorphous. alloy. Corrosion behavior of a novel Zr.5Ti22.5Hf 22.5Ni225Ta10 high-entropy ammorphous jmrt. 2022.Fe50(cid:0) XMn30Co10Cr10BX multi-principal elements alloys, J. Alloys Compd. 969. X. Yang, Y. Zhang, Prediction of high-entropy stabilized solid-solution in multi- (2023) 172428, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2023.172428. fault energy in B-doped. component alloys.